---
layout: post
title:      "One Step Backwards, Two Steps Forwards"
date:       2019-11-25 22:28:00 +0000
permalink:  one_step_backwards_two_steps_forwards
---

  How did I end up deciding to study at Flatiron School? I've always had an interest in coding but honestly I had a hard time figuring out how I was going to study and learn how to code. I first learned about computer programming as a profession in my teens and since then I've really had a passion for it. I had always been into technology and learning how things worked, and after looking into computer programming I started to see code more as an art form than just a bunch of different ways to spell out ones and zeros on a screen. The doors first opened up to me in high school when they started a computer science class and program leading into an AP computer science exam. However because the course was relatively new in the public education system, my score on the exam didn't transfer into college credits but it's really where my roots started.
	
	Having a desire to learn code already, I went fresh into university excited to further pursue my education and eventually turn that into a profession that I could truly enjoy. Turns out though, public education wasn't for me. Although I didn't have any problem finding motivation for the major I'd chosen, I really couldn't bring myself to attend or care for general education classes like literature or history. I ended up dropping out after realizing that I wasn't going to get anywhere if my overall gpa took a nosedive because of those classes. Of course this was more due to my laziness and lack of urgency than it was the school's but in the end I had concluded that university wasn't for me.
	
	Afterwards I moved back home and for a couple of years I meandered through life, not knowing how to progress my education or career. During these years I went through a couple part time jobs and just lived trying to make the most of my days, having fun however I could but in the end this didn't fulfill me. I tried to get back into studying code on my own multiple times through friends that were already working as developers or reputable online sources but I wasn't able to really get a firm grasp of the content through self study. I kept going back to school as my last option because I really didn't think I would get much out of learning if I didn't enjoy it.
	
	I'd known about coding bootcamps but programs that just offered some kind of certification but not any kind of connections or gateway into starting a career didn't attract me in the slightest. After all, I could have done that for free through the internet. However, after a while of searching, Flatiron School presented itself to me through a couple of recommendations from family and friends. After finishing a couple of the free online courses and looking through the different kinds of programs and offerings, I decided that this was the next step for me.
	
	I decided to take the part time course because it made the most sense to me given my inconsistent weekly schedule and commitments. I only just started but because I already have some roots in object oriented languages the first couple lessons aren't very challenging to me. Even so, I'm really enjoying getting back into the trend of studying and learning code. So instead of just using my energy on studying and finding a firm foundation for base concepts, I've also been putting effort into disciplining myself and my work ethic so I could really keep myself accountable in the coming 10 months of study. Right now I see code as having worlds of potential and flexibility in a society that's constantly advancing technologically so I'm excited to take this step towards contributing to that!
